
        KScreenGenie - The (new) KDE Screenshot Utility
                            README


1) What is KScreenGenie

KScreenGenie is a screenshooter utility for KDE. It is written
using the very latest KDE and Qt technologies (KDE Frameworks 5,
Qt 5 and QtQuick 2.0), and aims for a cleaner and more modular
codebase over KSnapshot (the previous screenshooter utility for
KDE) rather than adding features. KScreenGenie's codebase is
designed specifically so that it's easy to add Wayland support
once an API becomes available for it.

2) What am I giving up over KSnapshot?

  * The ability to grab freeform areas of your screen
  * The ability to select and grab specific widgets in a window
  * No "wait for a click before taking a shot" mode (we have a
    millisecond accuracy timer)
  * No Win32 or Mac OS support yet
  * The ability to take screenshots on platforms where OpenGL
    is not available (QtQuick 2.0 requires OpenGL)

The last point might be a major blocker for a lot of people,
but if you're running Plasma 5, you already have OpenGL (since
Plasma 5 is built using the same QtQuick 2.0 technologies as
this). If you're running KDE apps on a platform where OpenGL
is unavailable, KSnapshot continues to be available.

Note that KScreenGenie will work even if you use KWin without
compositing, or if you use another window manager (like OpenBox).
All you need is to have the 3D drivers installed.

3) What's cooler?

  * More robust multimonitor screenshot support.

    All the image capture code now resides in the platform backend
    (currently only X11) and uses native methods (xcb_image_get_image()
    for X11) rather than Qt's image capture code. This allows us fine
    grained control over multimonitor setups.

    The X11 backend currently captures images using xcb, and uses
    KScreen (which on X11 uses a native XRandR backend) to determine
    multimonitor configuration.

    KScreenGenie does NOT support taking multi-screen screenshots
    when every monitor is assigned a different X screen. It only
    supports RandR or Xinerama based virtual destops spanning
    multiple monitors. Adding support for traditional X11 multi
    screen is not a priority (KWindowSystem does not even support
    this scenario), but the modularity of the codebase means adding
    support for this is easy enough.

  * Live preview when grabbing rectangular regions of the screen.

    Traditionally, KSnapshot would take a fullscreen screenshot
    first and show you an interface to crop the image. With
    KScreenGenie, things are different. If you're running with
    compositing enabled, we render a transparent fullscreen window
    over your desktop on which you draw the crop rectangle. You
    get to see exactly what's happenning in the screen below the
    region selector, and the actual screenshot is taken AFTER you
    confirm the crop rectangle.

    If compositing is disabled, KScreenGenie falls back to the
    traditional behaviour. You can also force the old behaviour
    by setting the KSCREENGENIE_FORCE_CROP_NONLIVE environment
    variable.
